---
layout: post
title: "Time for a widget spring clean"
date: 2006-09-01
comments: false
---
[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

<!-- more -->

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Google Calendar[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://www.google.com/calendar)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

 [Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.  
  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

is a good example of an application that benefits from features of the
Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given
particular calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day,
it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your
calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

![[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://static.flickr.com/75/223014154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

![[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://static.flickr.com/89/222934844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](/node/317)[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

.[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

![[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Screenshot of analogue clock using SVG and XForms[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://static.flickr.com/81/230975082_43371e85eb_t.jpg)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://www.flickr.com/photos/mark-birbeck/230975082/)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Every now and then, when I'm looking for something else, I stumble across a
widget or an application that we've built using Sidewinder and formsPlayer,
but for one reason or another we didn't get round to putting on the site.
(Good old Google Desktop Search!)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Actually, there is only the one reason they haven't been added and that is
that we've been incredibly busy, but over the next period we're going to make
a concerted effort to get some of these goodies out, so that people can start
playing with them.[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

We'll be adding them to the [Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar)
is a good example of an application that benefits from features of the
Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given
particular calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day,
it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your
calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Sidewinder handbook[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](/about-sidewinder)[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a
good example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

, along with descriptions and tutorials.[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

![[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

red-led-clock[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://static.flickr.com/85/230970304_13f3ce4704_o.png)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://www.flickr.com/photos/mark-birbeck/230970304/)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

![[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

analogue-clock[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good
example of an application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder
Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given particular
calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a
simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your calendars
readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://static.flickr.com/81/230975082_43371e85eb_o.png)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](http://www.flickr.com/photos/mark-birbeck/230975082/)[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

  
[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

![[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

Screenshot of the map custom control[Google
Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an application
that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any
changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have cause to
refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such
a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

](/files/xbl-map-widget.PNG)[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar)
is a good example of an application that benefits from features of the
Sidewinder Viewer, without the need for any changes to be made. Given
particular calendars that you may have cause to refer to throughout your day,
it is a simple task to invoke the viewer in such a way as to make your
calendars readily available, yet also unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

[Google Calendar](http://www.google.com/calendar) is a good example of an
application that benefits from features of the Sidewinder Viewer, without the
need for any changes to be made. Given particular calendars that you may have
cause to refer to throughout your day, it is a simple task to invoke the
viewer in such a way as to make your calendars readily available, yet also
unobtrusive.

  
For instance, you may want to keep a small calendar always visible on your
desktop, but use transparency settings in order to minimise its impact on
other applications:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/75/22301
4154_f2c8be5b10_o.png)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/223014154/)

  
Alternatively, there might be calendars of specific events that are of
interest to you, such as sports fixtures. By docking the calendar to an edge
of the screen and setting it to automatically slide on to and off from the
display, such a calendar can always be instantly available without cluttering
your desktop:

  
[![Google Calendar in the Sidewinder Viewer](http://static.flickr.com/89/22293
4844_99fd46fe8f.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/89857293@N00/222934844/)

  
See the scripts attached below for demonstrations of the code. Detailed
information about writing and using these scripts is available in the article
[Using JavaScript to create internet-facing desktop applications](/node/317).

