---
layout: entry
title: "XForms custom controls, using XAML and Silverlight"
date: 2007-05-30
comments: true
---
[![Silverlight clock as a custom control in XForms/formsPlayer](http://farm1.s
tatic.flickr.com/192/521945943_0900de30cb_t.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos
/mark-birbeck/521945943/)

  
The title of this post may sound like an attempt to squeeze as many buzzwords
as possible into one line, but I'm genuinely excited by all of the
technologies mentioned. Everyone knows that Microsoft's commitment to
standards such as HTML and XForms is legendarily lacking, and this is nowhere
more obvious than in the quaintly kludgy XAML. But that said, there are some
very interesting ideas in the language structure itself, and it's clear that
they have done a very impressive job with Silverlight.

<!-- more -->

  
So whilst we're certainly not planning to water down our belief here at
formsPlayer that standards are (usually) a good thing, we've never seen
anything wrong with a pragmatic approach that uses whatever language gets the
job done. Having said that, if it's possible to encapsulate non-standard
languages like XAML--or even UI-specific languages like SVG--then we will
always try to do that.

  
Which is why we've created a new section on custom controls, and added two new
tutorials. The first shows how easily [custom controls can be built with XAML
and Silverlight](/node/890), whilst still maintaining a clean separation
between the forms that use the controls, and the controls themselves. A second
tutorial shows how to create [a simple map control](/node/887), which inherits
from an image control.

  
Using custom controls to more clearly represent different types of data is an
important part of our approach to XForms, but at the same time it's important
for us to ensure that exciting new technologies such as Silverlight can be
used with XForms and formsPlayer. These tutorials make a start, and they'll be
followed by a lot of other custom control work in the coming months.

