---
layout: entry
title: "RDFa used in classification of ancient ceramics"
date: 2008-12-05
comments: true
tags:
 - mark birbeck
 - rdfa
---
Like everyone involved in RDFa, I love seeing people use it to express
information about themselves, using vCards, FOAF relationships, event
information and so on. This type of information is often the first to get
processed by new semantic technologies such as RDFa.

<!-- more -->

  
But to be honest, this is simple stuff. The real meat of RDFa is to be able to
express much more complex collections of information, using nothing more than
the tools of web-publishing.

  
So I was pleased to stumble across a blog post about an impressive use of RDFa
-- a large XHTML document, containing lots of information about ancient
ceramics.

  
It seems that archealogical information collection at Ilion (the ancient name
for Troy) is being collated in a database called
[GRBPIllion](http://classics.uc.edu/troy/grbpottery/) (which stands for
_Greek, Roman and Byzantine Pottery at Ilion_). As with any project of this
scale, a key issue is how to make the information -- such as descriptions,
categorisations, drawings and photographs -- available to as many people as
possible.

  
After all, exciting as many of the finds are, there are also many fields in
which this kind of information could lead to new theories or discoveries that
are one step removed from the original find, and it's exciting to see that
RDFa may help in the publication of this data.

  
The blog post in question is called [RDFa at
Ilion](http://mediterraneanceramics.blogspot.com/2008/12/rdfa-at-ilion.html).

  
And now for no reason other than I like the serendipity (the picture was taken
about a month before I saw the blog post), here's a picture of my two sons,
looking at Herakles (Hercules) fighting the Nemean lion on an ancient Greek
vase, in the British Museum:

  
![Herakles fighting a lion on a vase](/files/IMG_0086.jpg)

  
Not a great picture, I'm afraid, but it is the longest that they stood still
all day.

