---
layout: entry
title: "Upcoming talks on RDF, RDFa and XForms"
date: 2008-05-01
comments: true
---
May is going to be pretty busy with talks about XForms, RDF and RDFa coming
up.

<!-- more -->

  
First up is my talk [XForms, REST, XQuery...and
skimming](http://2008.xtech.org/public/schedule/detail/605) at XTech 2008. The
talk embraces themes I've been pursuing for a couple of years now; that as we
put more functionality into the client, and servers get 'cleverer', it becomes
much easier to build sophisticated web applications. Of course server
technologies are moving so fast now that this whole approach is making more
and more sense, so I'm looking forward to taking in recent developments in my
talk. For example, both Amazon and Google effectively have 'databases in the
cloud' that can be used to store data and query it, via APIs, with literally
no configuration.

  
A few weeks later I'm going to be giving [a tutorial on RDF at
SemTech](http://www.semantic-conference.com/session/698/). This is an
interesting development for me, because RDF and the semantic web were always
my first interests--before XForms and before XHTML 2. (As well as writing RDF
parsers, and designing applications, I also contributed chapters on RDF and
RDFS to a couple of books on metadata and XML.)

  
But one problem I always had when trying to build semantic-web applications
was that defining the user interface was pretty hairy. This was partly because
RDF Schema is tricky to process, but also because HTML was insufficiently
powerful in its core feature-set, so the translation from RDF to HTML involved
a lot of work.

  
The need for a user interface language that was much richer than HTML was
therefore why I got involved in the XForms standard (and worked with [Paul
Butcher](/paul-butcher) to produce [the first fully conforming XForms
processor, formsPlayer](http://www.formsPlayer.com/)). So although it may not
seem directly connected to the semantic web, I believe that in the coming
period XForms will start to become a key part of the semantic web's
architecture.

  
Another problem I kept coming up against whilst developing for the semantic
web was the difficulty in actually _publishing_ metadata. In particular I
always found it frustrating that there was a lot of really useful metadata
just sitting in ordinary web pages, and no-one could get at it. Attempting to
resolve this problem gave rise to RDFa, and I'm excited that the [RDFa in
XHTML working draft](http://www.w3.org/TR/rdfa-syntax/) is extremely close to
becoming a stable recommendation. And as interest in RDFa grows, I'm pleased
to say that some of my other presentations in May will be 'tech talks' on RDFa
at Yahoo!, eBay and Google. (I'm really excited that I might be getting to
meet some of the guys behind [Yahoo!'s
SearchMonkey](http://developer.yahoo.com/searchmonkey/).)

  
My final talk of the month will be at the excitingly-named [Kings of
Code](http://www.kingsofcode.nl/), and I'm looking forward to talking about
XHTML, XHTML 2, HTML 5, XAML, and anything else I can think of in relation to
web languages.

