---
layout: entry
title: "XTech 2008: The 5 minute guide to RDFa...in only 6 minutes and 40 seconds"
date: 2008-05-07
comments: true
tags:
 - event
 - mark birbeck
 - rdfa
---
[![Mark Birbeck on RDFa by ianalchemy](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2235/247
6720186_8e4f9a4719_t.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ianalchemy/2476720186/
)

This presentation by Mark Birbeck was part of the _20:20 Lightning Talks_
session, held at XTech 2008.

<!-- more -->

[The 5 minute guide to RDFa...in only 6 minutes 40
seconds](http://www.slideshare.net/mark.birbeck/the-5-minute-guide-to-rdfain-
only-6-minutes-40-seconds)

View more [documents](http://www.slideshare.net/) from [Mark
Birbeck](http://www.slideshare.net/mark.birbeck).

Presentation title: The 5 minute guide to RDFa...in only 6 minutes and 40
seconds Presentation abstract: RDFa is a generic way to add metadata to mark-
up, and has been described by Bob du Charme as "microformats done right". This
talk aims to get you up to speed on this new W3C standard -- fast. By: [Mark
Birbeck](/profile/mark-birbeck) Conference: XTech 2008 held at Radisson SAS
Royal Hotel, Dublin, Ireland, from May 6th to 9th, 2008. Session: [20:20
Lightning Talks](http://2008.xtech.org/public/schedule/detail/654), on
Thursday May 8th, 2008. Session abstract: 20:20 lightning talks are short
presentations designed to be a fun, interesting and compact way for many ideas
to be communicated in a short space of time. The 20:20 format encourages
highly focused, fast-moving presentations, and helps to keep audience
attention riveted on each presentation, to keep things a bit unpredictable and
surprising, and to keep presentations 'fat free' without any lulls. Maybe you
have a new idea you'd like to try out, or a new project you're starting. A
lightning talk is a great way to tell others about it without the burden of a
full presentation and paper!

