---
layout: post
title: "How formsPlayer can help take XForms to new platforms"
date: 2008-04-06
comments: false
---
A short while ago we made the [formsPlayer source
code](http://code.google.com/p/formsplayer/) available under an open source
license, on Google Code. We didn't announce it widely because we wanted to get
the infrastructure right before inviting people in, but it's something that
the team behind formsPlayer have been excited about doing for a while now, for
a number of reasons.

<!-- more -->

The main one is simply that in this day and age, [open source is so obviously the way to go](http://news.zdnet.co.uk/software/0,1000000121,39379900,00.htm);
whether it's government departments, multinational companies, educational
establishments or individuals, there seems to be no barrier nowadays to people
using open source software in their projects. But perhaps just as important as
'doing the right thing' is our desire to enlist help in porting formsPlayer to
new platforms. Our team is small, and would never have got formsPlayer to its
current enterprise-level standard without the enormous amount of community
involvement we've received, in the form of testing and bug reports
(formsPlayer has been downloaded tens of thousands of times). But that means
that we're missing out on a crucial asset, the involvement of developers.
XForms needs to be on more platforms, and in more browsers, and we think that
formsPlayer has a major contribution to make to realising that...but it will
only be able to make that contribution if the code is open. From the end-user
point of view, making the code 'free' will probably have little impact;
formsPlayer has had a free version available ever since it was first released,
and that will obviously continue. And for those who need enterprise-level
builds and priority support, we will continue to offer that service. But the
team that built formsPlayer has been increasingly providing companies with
world-class XForms consultancy, support and training, and in the coming period
we intend to put that much more to the centre of what we offer. So over the
next few months we'll be making a number of announcements about new
partnerships, new libraries, new tools, and new services. And we'll also have
case-studies on our work in sectors such as the UK insurance industry and
banking in the US, just as soon as we can find the time to produce them! We
believe that XForms can be central to web and desktop application development
over the next decade, and we want to play our part in helping to put it there;
taking formsPlayer open source was a significant step towards that.

