---
layout: post
title: "W3C Note: Rich Web Application Backplane"
date: 2008-02-14
comments: false
categories:
 - mark birbeck
 - standard
 - backplane
---
![W3C logo](http://www.w3.org/Icons/w3c_home)

The [Rich Web Application
Backplane](http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/Forms/2006/backplane/) document is a W3C
note, published in July 2006, which looks at the need to provide a common
architecture for use across voice, web browsers, widget frameworks, and so on.
<!-- more -->

The note was largely pulled together by Charlie Wiecha from IBM, who is a
member of the W3C's XForms Working Group. Parts of the document were
contributed by:

  * [Mark Birbeck](/mark-birbeck), Invited Expert on the W3C's XForms Working Group and XHTML 2 Working Group;
  * John Boyer, co-chair of the W3C XForms Working Group;
  * Steven Pemberton, co-chair of the W3C XForms Working Group, and chair of the W3C HTML Working Group;
  * Kevin Kelly, chair of the W3C Compound Document Working Group;
  * Al Gilman, chair of the W3C Protocols and Formats Working Group.
From the introduction:

> Web 2.0 combines a desire for increasing interactivity and responsiveness in
Web applications, together with a desire to drive an exponentially growing
source of applications through component-based (e.g. 'mash-up') rather than
monolithic design methods. Interactivity and responsiveness result largely
from asynchronous programming methods where the traditional page replacement
design is replaced by enhanced client-side processing and incremental server
interactions. Server interactions may either refresh data or presentation
controls, without the disruption in end-user experience caused by complete
page replacement. Component-based designs have resulted from the increasing
trend of web authors to expose APIs within their client-side code, allowing
for downstream (i.e. after page-generation) extension of those components with
value-added data or presentation elements not anticipated or controlled by the
original page author.

